Update sickness to reflect the new policy (#425)
dxw/playbook: _includes/sections/working-here/your-pay-pension-and-other-benefits.md

#### Sickness

This policy covers both short and longer term sickness absences. Our aim is to
look after the health and wellbeing of all dxw staff and the needs of the
company.

##### Communication of sickness

If you’re sick, you must let your line manager or a member of the HR team know

> by 10:00am or as soon as you reasonably can after that. This can be done via

Reviewer: I think this has got to be "and" rather than "or". If I'm sick and I message my line manager, who is also sick, the message goes into the void and it looks like I was just awol. This is one of the things that's really good about #dxw-sickness, as it's already public, so it doesn't matter who's there to pay attention to it.

email, directly on Slack, phone call or text. Line managers will record and

> monitor sickness for individuals within their teams.

Reviewer: Do the line managers need to tell anyone? How should they do that?

Author: Line managers are responsible for updating breathehr but unless specifically asked by the individual there is no responsibility to tell anyone in the wider team

Reviewer: That feels like a gap. How is a DL supposed to know why someone isn't here. In the case of a team without a DL, how is the client supposed to know? What if they're on support and need cover?

Author: If the person sick is informing their line manager they can also ask this to be passed on to the wider team, the DL or a direct message can be sent. At the moment not everyone uses the sickness slack channel and will reach out to those needing to know directly.

Reviewer: So the person who's sick needs to check their calendar and let their line manager know everyone they might need to tell? That seems pretty inefficient and a toll on the sick person, who should be resting, not worrying about who needs to know that they're sick.

Author: No - letting your line manager or HR know directly if you have anyone (inclu the client or delivery lead) to be told will suffice. BreatheHR would also be updated with your sickness if someone reaches out to HR on a need to know basis. Dependent on the role or client work a team member is on this will change.

Reviewer: Right, but to work out that list of people, I'd need to check my calendar.

If you are unwell and know that you are going to be off for a period of time, or
have been signed off by your GP until a certain date, you don’t need to update
your line manager daily. Let them know when you will be checking in again so
they know when to expect to hear from you.

When you return to work, you must check your sickness has been correctly
recorded in BreatheHR, update it if necessary and mark yourself as returned to
work. Your line manager will then review and close the sick leave. If you're
sick for more than 7 calendar days in a row, you'll also need to provide a fit
note.

##### Absence meetings

Your line manager should check-in with you on a regular basis about your
wellbeing, and catch up with you after any sickness absence to see how you are.
If you're sick for more than 7 working days over a rolling 12 month period, your

> line manager will invite you to an absence meeting to discuss your health. Where

Author: The absence meeting in this circumstance (7 working days) will not be an optional meeting it will be required.

> line manager will invite you to an absence meeting to discuss your health. Where

Reviewer: Why is it required? Does it need to be? Making it required means it's for dxw's benefit, and knowing that I have a required meeting when I come back to work might make it harder for me to come back.

> line manager will invite you to an absence meeting to discuss your health. Where

Author: Yes to ensure that we are as an employer and a line manager doing the best to support an individual.

appropriate, we’ll talk about how we can support your return to work and any

> temporary or permanent adjustments which might help improve your wellbeing and
> reduce your levels of absence. We might also agree an action plan and / or a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
temporary or permanent adjustments which might help improve your wellbeing and
support you to need fewer absences. We might also agree an action plan and / or a
```

The current wording talks like the goal is reduced absence rather than a reduced need for absence. My suggested wording is a bit clumsy, though.

review period. Where we think it would be helpful, we’ll seek medical advice via
an Occupational Health advisor.

If you have a long term health condition and would like to discuss reasonable
adjustments and ways of working that will help, we welcome a conversation at any
point. The sooner we know, the sooner we can support you.

##### Pay

> Within the 12 month period, a person will receive:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within any rolling 12 month period, a person will receive:
```

Or do we mean a specific 12 month period?

Author: Rolling 12 month period

- full pay for the first 12 days of sickness absence
- half pay (but no less than living wage) for the next 8 days of sickness
  absence

> - living wage for the next 10 days of sickness absence

Reviewer 2: Is this the London Living Wage for people based in London?

Reviewer 3: I didn't know it changed if you were in London, I thought that there was one living wage? https://www.gov.uk/national-minimum-wage-rates

Reviewer 2: The [Real Living Wage](https://www.livingwage.org.uk/what-real-living-wage), calculated by the Living Wage Foundation, is voluntary (not required by law), but I know dxw aims to be more inclusive and supportive than the strict requirements of the law.

Author: Yes, this is the real living wage figure.

- statutory sick pay pay after 30 days of sickness absence

There'll be circumstances where we'll make exceptions, because it's not possible
to write a policy that is fair in every situation. This structure will form our
starting point for those decisions. All decisions on exceptions will be made by

> the Directors’ group. Our aim is to ensure that we’re treating everyone fairly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Directors’ group after discussion with you and your line manager. Our aim is to ensure that we’re treating everyone fairly
```

It could do with some detail on how me, the employee, can request an exception. Do I talk to my line manager? What do they do? Do they talk to the directors on my behalf? Do they talk to HR? Does someone schedule a meeting including me, or not? etc.

Author: Every situation may be different and setting guidelines here would be unrealistic, ie you may not be able to attend the meeting. A line manager would be a aware of a situation (prolonged sickness) then a conversation about this would have happened/be happening.

Author: Every circumstance is different so it may not depend on the outcome of the absence meeting. We can't include a list of things that may require an extension.

Reviewer: Will the directors ever make a decision without consulting you or your line manager? Is there an issue with my suggestion?

```suggestion
the Directors’ group after discussion with you and your line manager. Our aim is to ensure that we’re treating everyone fairly
```

> and consistently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and consistently, while being aware of our financial requirements.
```

or something like that. That's the other side to this policy, and the thing that limits the allowances. It might also be fair to e.g. pay everyone working part-time due to health conditions a full-time salary and have no limit on sick leave, but the financial needs of dxw limit that.

##### Long term medical treatment

> Regular and open communication with your line manager is important to ensuring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regular and open communication with your line manager is important so
```

we can support you in the best possible way through a period of long term
medical treatment (a period of more than 2 weeks).

If you require long term medical treatment that would affect your ability to
work as normal, but you are still able to work, we will support this wherever we
can. We may consider a change of project or role where that’s an option.

> If you finish your treatment, you’ll have a meeting to aid your return to work,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you finish your treatment, your line manager will organize a meeting to aid your return to work,
```

Let's be specific about who's expected to take the actions needed.

or to normal working hours, and ensure your ongoing wellbeing is supported. We
may look at a phased return for example.

##### Escalation

> If your sickness absence continues for 3 months after an absence meeting, your

Reviewer: What does "continues for 3 months" mean? A solid 3 months off? Some number of days in the next 3 months? A single day in the next 3 months?

Reviewer 2: > What does "continues for 3 months" mean? A solid 3 months off? Some number of days in the next 3 months? A single day in the next 3 months?

I second the question. Flexibility is good, and I am happy to hear that flexibility is the intent, but vagueness creates anxiety.

Would a potential applicant reading the Playbook be reassured that they won't be expected to not miss a single day once they've been "flagged" via an absence meeting?

Author: A sustained amount of absence. It would be following any changes that may have been made in the initial absence meeting ie 80% FTE, compressed hours and even following those changes things haven't improved.

Reviewer: Can we state that in the policy?

Reviewer: This is still really unclear. Without having a discussion with someone, I'd have no idea what "continues for 3 months" means. If it's something agreed with your line manager during your absence review meeting, then let's state that instead.

line manager will set up a further meeting to discuss your situation. We will
look to make any further reasonable adjustments to help you get back working.
This might include looking for a suitable alternative role that fits your
circumstances better.

Where we’re unable to reach an agreement that means you’re able to maintain a

> reasonable level of attendance for work, we may consider your dismissal. We will

Reviewer 2: It would be good to be clear about what a reasonable level of attendance is, whether it's defined for the whole company, role specific, or whether it's something to be negotiated if such a situation comes up.

Author: It would be negotiated and discussed depending on the circumstance. We can't predict for these situations.

Reviewer: Can we right down how we'd determine what a resonable level is?

```suggestion
reasonable level of attendance for work, as determined by you, your line manager, and the HR team, we may consider your dismissal. We will
```

only do this after we have exhausted all other options.

##### Medical appointments

> We support staff who need regular time off for medical appointments or

Reviewer: What about one-off appointments? What about appointments for dependents? How do they interact with this policy?

Author: "If you need to attend a one off appointment or an appointment for a dependent let your line manager or delivery lead know as far in advance as possible. If you are going to be away from the office for more than half a day then you will need to track it through BreatheHR."

Reviewer: Does it use sick leave or holiday, or is it "free" leave?

counselling. If you need to attend an appointment, you should talk to your line
manager. For meetings of a couple of hours or so (including travel time), your
line manager will usually ask you to try to make the hours up during the week.
If the time off is longer but less frequent, the hours can be made up over a
longer period of time.

In both cases, this might mean a conversation with your delivery lead or
equivalent to make sure work is managed in the best way. If it’s not possible to
recover the time taken in a flexible way, for example, due to the amount or
pattern of time needed, your line manager may need to refer to another one of

> our policies. That might include considering a change to working hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
our policies. That might include considering a part-time working pattern.
```

I think that's what you mean here?

by 10:00am or as soon as you reasonably can after that. This can be done via
email, directly on Slack, phone call or text. Line managers will record and
monitor sickness for individuals within their teams.

If you are unwell and know that you are going to be off for a period of time, or
have been signed off by your GP until a certain date, you don’t need to update
your line manager daily. Let them know when you will be checking in again so
they know when to expect to hear from you.

When you return to work, you must check your sickness has been correctly
recorded in BreatheHR, update it if necessary and mark yourself as returned to
work. Your line manager will then review and close the sick leave. If you're
sick for more than 7 calendar days in a row, you'll also need to provide a fit
note.

##### Absence meetings

Your line manager should check-in with you on a regular basis about your
wellbeing, and catch up with you after any sickness absence to see how you are.
If you're sick for more than 7 working days over a rolling 12 month period, your
line manager will invite you to an absence meeting to discuss your health. Where

> appropriate, we’ll talk about how we can support your return to work and any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
appropriate, you’ll talk about how dxw can support your return to work and any
```

temporary or permanent adjustments which might help improve your wellbeing and

> support you to need fewer absences. We might also agree an action plan and / or a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support you to need fewer absences. You might also agree an action plan and / or a
```

> review period. Where we think it would be helpful, we’ll seek medical advice via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
review period. Where you and your line manager agree that it would be helpful, we’ll seek medical advice via
```

an Occupational Health advisor.

If you have a long term health condition and would like to discuss reasonable
adjustments and ways of working that will help, we welcome a conversation at any
point. The sooner we know, the sooner we can support you.

##### Pay

Within any rolling 12 month period, a person will receive:

- full pay for the first 12 days of sickness absence

> - half pay (but no less than living wage) for the next 8 days of sickness
>   absence
> - real living wage for the next 10 days of sickness absence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- half pay (but no less than a [real living wage](https://www.livingwage.org.uk/what-real-living-wage)) for the next 8 days of sickness
  absence
- a [real living wage](https://www.livingwage.org.uk/what-real-living-wage) for the next 10 days of sickness absence
```

- statutory sick pay pay after 30 days of sickness absence

There'll be circumstances where we'll make exceptions, because it's not possible
to write a policy that is fair in every situation. This structure will form our
starting point for those decisions. All decisions on exceptions will be made by
the Directors’ group. Our aim is to ensure that we’re treating everyone fairly
and consistently, while being aware of our financial requirements.

##### Long term medical treatment

Regular and open communication with your line manager is important so
we can support you in the best possible way through a period of long term

> medical treatment (a period of more than 2 weeks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
medical treatment (a period of more than 2 consecutive weeks).
```

Or is it 10 total days for treatment spread out over many weeks, or something else?

If you require long term medical treatment that would affect your ability to
work as normal, but you are still able to work, we will support this wherever we
can. We may consider a change of project or role where that’s an option.

If you finish your treatment, your line manager will organize a meeting to aid your return to work,
or to normal working hours, and ensure your ongoing wellbeing is supported. We

> may look at a phased return for example.

Reviewer: Can we link to what "phased return" means?

> ##### Escalation

Reviewer: This is a very scary word to have in a policy like this. Can we use a different one?

If your sickness absence continues for 3 months after an absence meeting, your
line manager will set up a further meeting to discuss your situation. We will
look to make any further reasonable adjustments to help you get back working.
This might include looking for a suitable alternative role that fits your
circumstances better.

Where we’re unable to reach an agreement that means you’re able to maintain a
reasonable level of attendance for work, we may consider your dismissal. We will
only do this after we have exhausted all other options.

##### Medical appointments

We support staff who need regular time off for medical appointments or
counselling. If you need to attend an appointment, you should talk to your line
manager. For meetings of a couple of hours or so (including travel time), your
line manager will usually ask you to try to make the hours up during the week.
If the time off is longer but less frequent, the hours can be made up over a
longer period of time.

If you need to attend a one off appointment or an appointment for a dependent let your line manager or delivery lead know as far in advance as possible. 

> If you are going to be away from the office for more than half a day then you will need to track it through BreatheHR.

Reviewer: Is this sick leave, holiday, or compassionate leave?

#### Sickness

This policy covers both short and longer term sickness absences. Our aim is to look after the health and wellbeing of all dxw staff and the needs of the company. 

##### Communication of sickness

If you’re sick, you must let your line manager or a member of the HR team know by 10:00am or as soon as you reasonably can after that. This can be done via email, directly on Slack, phone call or text. Line managers will record and monitor sickness for individuals within their teams.

If you are unwell and know that you are going to be off for a period of time, or have been signed off by your GP until a certain date, you don’t need to update your line manager daily. Let them know when you will be checking in again so they know when to expect to hear from you. 

> When you return to work, you must check your sickness has been correctly recorded in BreatheHR, update it if necessary and mark yourself as returned to work. Your line manager will then review and close the sick leave. If you're sick for more than 7 calendar days in a row, you'll also need to provide a fit note.

Reviewer 3: Is a fit note the same as a doctors note?

Reviewer: This comment still stands. Can we define what we mean?

Reviewer 4: [https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/fit-note](https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/fit-note)
